hi guys thanks for making the Friday
morning 9am session I know after the
party last night must be rough so really
appreciate you guys being here my name
is abhishek singh i'm the senior product
manager on the Elastic Beanstalk team
and I've got Colin here who's one of our
partners and he's going to be talking
about our customer story let's quickly
go ahead and look at what we'll be
learning in the session today or the
agenda we're going to be talking about
Elastic Beanstalk versus doing it
yourself if you will we'll look at
developer workflows on deploying sample
applications on Elastic Beanstalk so as
I was saying we're going to look at
developer workflows a demo of what
we'll be doing with the sample
application we'll go over some best
practices and then walk you guys through
the console on how you would go use some
of those best practices and then we'll
talk about a customer story Colin's
going to talk about royal caribbean
that's implemented their royalcaribbean.com
web app on Elastic Beanstalk so
let's get started so after this session
you guys should be able to understand
the benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk
versus doing it yourself we will deploy a
sample application to elastic beanstalk
we will also make the code available on
github so that you guys can go and use
that code later we'll talk about
modifying the application both the
infrastructure stack and the application
stack we'll also talk about how to
extend your application so that you can
use additional resources by simply
defining configuration files in your
source bundle we will talk about debugging
load testing and scaling your
applications to handle millions of web
requests and we'll also talk about
deployment options available in elastic
Beanstalk so that you know which ones to
choose or which ones are appropriate for
your deployments finally we will talk
about operational monitoring if you will
so setting up alarms and notifications
and finally we will talk about using
tags and the best practices around tags
for cost management so let's get started
with what does Elastic Beanstalk provide
versus doing it yourself
as you can see on the instance or the
application stack if you're a developer
you no longer have to go provision PHP
or your lamp stack for example or
install node and Nginx if you're
using a node.js application Beanstalk
provides all of that for you all you
need to do is simply bring your code
let's talk about what beatstack provides
in terms of the infrastructure as you
can see Beanstalk provides two separate
infrastructure stacks we have a single
instance stack which is really for
low-cost development and we also have a
load balanced auto scaling stack which
is pre-setup for production workloads
and as you will see today I'm using a
load balancing auto scale stack to run a
simple application that's serving about
10,000 requests per second we'll also
talk about web and worker tiers so these
are two tiers that Beanstalk supports
today a web tier is used for front-end
applications or API backends if you will
and worker tiers are used for
performing asynchronous work for example
if you had a front-end that collected
email addresses the
workers tier can then be used to send emails out or
for image processing if you have an
application that collects a lot of
images does processing and then store
them in S3 you can use the workers tier
to do that Beanstalk also provides you
with a unique domain name for all your
applications so you don't have to
actually go buy a custom domain if you
don't want to we also do support custom
domains as you'll see in my demo which you can
use in concert with (和…相呼应) Route 53 so
let's quickly look at the pieces of
information that you need to deploy your
code in Elastic Beanstalk
and this is for any application on one of our
supported platforms so Beanstalk
supports eight different platforms today
we support Java both in a Tomcat variant
and also a generic Java variant on our
generic Java container you can run any
JVM-based application or any JVM-based
language applications for example Scala
or closure we support node, PHP, docker,
.NET, Python, Ruby and recently we
added support for Go
again as the graphic shows all you need is your code
you need to know the region that you're
deploying your code to
this could be any one of the 9 regions where
Beanstalk is supported you need to know your stack
or container type which is one of the
8 platforms I mentioned
the third choice you need to make is whether
you're doing development work or
production so you choose between the
single instance or the load balance with
auto scaling and finally optionally you
can choose to create an RDS database
I would point out that if you create an
RDS database as part of your Beanstalk
environment the life cycle of the
database is tied to the life cycle of
your environment so this is really good
for development cases
but it's not something you want to use for production workloads
because in production
the life cycle of your data is generally
different from the life cycle of your
application so that's the point to keep in mind
so how can you deploy applications
to Elastic Beanstalk we have three
different ways that are supported today
you can use the AWS management console
you can use one of our toolkits we have
a toolkit for Eclipse and also plugin
for Visual Studio or you can use our
Elastic Beanstalk CLI which is what I'll
be demoing today so what's the workflow
that one needs to go through when you
need to deploy an application to elastic
Beanstalk in this case I'm using a node
sample the URL for Github is
on the screen so you get started by installing
the Elastic Beanstalk CLI which is a
simple pip install then you can download
your code in this case I'm git cloning a
sample application but this could be
your code that you already have in a
folder or your code that you have in
Github that you can git clone the third
step is to initialize the folder by
calling 'eb init' what this does is
essentially tie your folder to an
application in Elastic Beanstalk or in
the cloud the fourth step is to follow
the prompts to configure your
environment and I'll show you guys these
steps in a demo a little later and
finally once you've configured your
environment and your folder
go ahead and issue an 'eb create' what
this does is now takes the configuration
that's stored locally and creates an
environment in Elastic Beanstalk that
runs that application along with the
configuration so obviously now that you
have your application deployed you want
to go ahead and update and make changes
and you want to keep on committing new
changes to the application so how does
that work flow look like?
the first step is obviously updating your
code then you go ahead and add that code
to your git repository
Git is not required for the Elastic Beanstalk CLI
it's just something that a lot of people use so I have it there
if you don't have git
Beanstalks just going to zip up the
folder and upload it so that's the other
option that you do have and finally
once you've done the commit and the deploy
you can just issue an 'eb open' to open the
application in the browser so let's
quickly look at the application the
sample application details that will be
going out or looking at today
I want to quickly bring up my browser here so I
can show you what the application looks
like so we have a really simple
application that's running on Beanstalk
it's essentially a pre-launch
application so if you want to launch
something you're collecting email
addresses what this application does
you can go sign up it asks for your name
and then I can just go in here and say
sign up and that record has now been
stored in DynamoDB so that I have a
record for it and I also have configured
in the application an SNS topic so that
every time somebody signs up the
administrator of the website gets an
email that someone signed up for your
application so that's the application
let's quickly go ahead and look at the
details of what's required to run that
application in Elastic Beanstalk
so the first thing we need to do for any
application is define dependencies that
the application uses
in elastic Beanstalk we use standard dependency
managers for the languages or frameworks
that you're using so for example this is
a node application so i'm using a
package.json which is used by NPM or the
Node Package Manager
as you can see there I've defined
the application name a version and then a list of
dependencies that my application uses
one of the things I want to point out
for dependencies is it's a really bad
idea to have 'latest' as I have in there
because what's going to happen is
every time you do a deployment if any of the
dependencies have changed versions NPM
is going to pull in the new versions
and then you've got a moving target for
example every time you do a deployment
what's a better idea is to actually put
in the specific versions that you are
using for your applications
if you're in the node world you can actually go a
step further and use shrinkwrap which
is an NPM command to actually tie in the
entire chain or lock down
the entire chain of dependencies so that every time
you deploy the APP it's the same exact
versions of dependencies that are being
pulled in and deployed so as I mentioned
all you need to do for deploying an
application to Beanstalk is provided
application with the appropriate
dependency manager file so for example
in node it's a package.json, in ruby it's
a gem file, in PHP it's a
composer file if you will, so on and so forth
one of the other pieces that I
have in the application here or the
sample code that you will see is I'm
using some
thing called EB extensions
Beanstalk provides very high extensibility in
terms of what you can do with both your
application stack and the infrastructure
stack and EB extensions is the mechanism
that you use to modify either the
application or the infrastructure stack
that your application is going to use
in this case let's look at the details of
how do I modify the application stack
so in here I have a set of option settings
if you will as you can see I'm defining
a custom option which is the email
address where somebody is going to get emailed or
the administrator of the website
every time somebody signs up I've got some environment variables that are defined so I have a theme and then
as you can see when I have the AWS
region i'm using a concept of reference
in this case i'm referencing the AWS
region so that I don't have to hard code
this in my application that ensures that
this application bundle can be
deployed to any of the regions supported by
Beanstalk so you're not hard coding it
to be us-east-1 or us-west-2 for that
example we also have two other resources
there which is a startup_signup_table
this is the DynamoDB table and then we
have a new_sign_up topic which is the SNS topic
both of these resources are
created by another set of eb extensions
that we're going to look at very quickly
so in this case again as I'm creating
resources I want to use references and
not hard code values in there because
these references will change every time
I create a new application from the
source bundle and finally I'm
configuring the proxy server on the
container which I'm using Nginx for here
and I'm configuring some static file
folders where I'm going to serve my
static assets so that the node process
is not serving those static assets now
let's look at the eb extensions that
actually add additional AWS resources to
this application for example as I
mentioned in this case we're going to be
using DynamoDB the simple notification
service and the simple queuing service
so in my eb extension I start with a
resources section
and as I mentioned I'm using references
so you will see that I have a StartupSignupsTable
defined here as a resource
and then I have a NewSignupTopic
defined here as a resource and that is
what I was referencing in my previous
eb extension to ensure that i don't have to
hard-code these values in
again in this resources tab this is really a CloudFormation
syntax or snippet if you will
I'm defining three resources here
one's of type DynamoDB table and it's got some
schema elements that I've defined I've
got a sign up queue this is essentially
where the addresses end up every time
they are submitted on the application
and then I have a sign up topic which is
SNS topic this is used for notification
so that every time somebody signs up the
developer of the application gets a
notification and then finally I have a
policy in there which allows SQS to
communicate with SNS some of the things
i want to do point out here is this is a
good example of an eb extension that
uses some of our built-in functions for
example I'm using a function
get attribute or FN::GetAtt if you will
which is down here and
this is actually getting an attribute
of the queue that I've defined above i'm also using what
we've seen earlier is references so
anytime you're writing eb extensions
make sure to use references and get attributes
as necessary instead of
hard-coding values into the
eb extensions so let's go ahead and look at
the demo of what it looks like to do
everything that i just described in
real life alright so let me go ahead and copy
the Github URL let's make this a little
bigger
is that big enough for everybody in the
back can you guys see the text perfect
all right so let's go ahead and do a git
clone and I'm going to pull down my application
now let's go into the folder
so as you can see I've set up my command
line if you will to show the branch that I'm using
in this case it's the master branch
so now i have my
application as i mentioned some of the
files in here simply my app.js file
which is the application i have the
package.json file which i mentioned earlier
is the dependencies
and then i have the shrink-wrap json
which essentially defines the entire tree
structure of the dependencies
so as we talked about in the workflows
let's go ahead and initialize this folder to be
deployed to Elastic Beanstalk and
I'm going to do that with the 'eb init'
let's go ahead and choose a region
I'm going to choose the default which is us-west-2 or Oregon
so when I did 'eb init'
Beanstalk or the CLI is already showing
me the applications that i have running
not obviously when you do demos
in the interest of time you want to have as
they say a pre-baked set of cookies in
the oven which i'm going to pull out
later so we've got two applications that
are already running there
I have a load generation application that's actually
generating the load and then
i have my demo application
so i'm going to choose the demo application
and then it's showing me that i have two environments
that are already in the demo application
so i have a dev environment and a prod
environment so let's go ahead and create
in fact in this step i'm just going to
pick the dev environment if you will and
then we'll later go ahead and create a
staging environment in here
so now my CLI is initialized for Elastic Beanstalk
as you can see on my command line Github
or git things that I have new files in
there so let's quickly look at those
files Beanstalk creates ".elasticbeanstalk"
folder that has a configuration file
this file essentially tells
the command line interface which
environment your application is tied to
so we'll go back and then follow the
steps of "eb create" if you will and in
this case "eb create" can be issued either
without any parameters or there's a
whole host of parameters that you can specify
in my case i want to
create a sign up staging environment
with the specific cname so i'm gonna do "eb create"
and i want to use an instance type of c3.large
so i'm going to
type that in actually let me start with the
name first so i'm going to do signup-staging
and I set instance type of
c3.large and then I want to use a cname
let's go back and quickly take a look at
the Beanstalk environment so that
I can be consistent across the board
so in here the naming scheme i'm using is sign
up the name or the stage if you will and
then launch so let's go ahead and do
that and now let's go ahead and get that
process started so as you can see
what Elastic Beanstalk CLI is doing there is
it's already uploaded the version of the
application that you have in the folder
to S3 and then we're starting to create
the application and it's showing you
some of the details there
as i mentioned i have an environment that's pre-baked
so let's go ahead and let this process
go on in the background and go to the
pre-baked environment so here i have the
pre-baked environment let's look at some
of the operations we can do here so one
of the first things obviously is you
want to do an update to this application
so let's go ahead and make a change so
as you guys can see in the application
that it says the next big thing is here
let's go ahead and change that to the
next week thing is coming for example
because you know it's a pre-launch site
we want to make sure that that's what
we're doing. so I go to my views and that's where I
define the next big thing and it's right
there so let's change that to coming
save that file now go back to my command
line here and all of a sudden get says
hey you have changes and this is one of
the things that a lot of people miss
12.2 Beanstalk and sometimes get
frustrated is that you don't commit your
changes to git and you try to do a
deploy in that case it's not going to
work because beanstalks using the last
commit if this folder wasn't a git
folder we would just take the changes as
is and deploying but since we're using
it we got to make sure that we are
committing this so let's go ahead and do
that so I'm going to set that up and say
okay so we've added our folder and now I
all I need to do is issue "eb deploy"
and so now the deployments in progress the
CLI's telling me hey we've starting
the update the versions being deployed
to the instances as you can see and very
quickly it's going to come and tell me
everything is done and then i'll call it
"eb open" from here I'm pull up the app
and you should be able to see there that
it says the next big thing is coming
instead of the next thing is here Oh
Beanstalk does not do get out because we
don't know what files you need to add
the reason for doing get ad is really to
add your changes to the git repository
that's just a good work flow I'm going
to hold questions till the end if you
don't mind because we start a little
late so I want to make sure we get
through everything so beanstalks now
deployed everything successfully let's
go ahead and do it "eb open" and as you
can see it's gone from "the next big
thing is here" to "the next big thing is
coming" so it's really very simple to get
started very easy to deploy your
applications make changes and updates
now let's quickly go back to the slides
so let's talk about some of the best
practices around what you should be
doing when you are deploying
applications on Elastic Beanstalk to
ensure that your applications can scale
and handle millions of web requests
so the first and the most obvious thing is
to do you know obviously test and tune
your application I have some best
practices in here that I'll go through
these are some of the things that we've
learned over the years both from our
customers and our own experience running
things the first thing that you want to
do whenever you launch an application or
a web APP is you want to pick a
performance metric that's important
to you so for example if you're a web
application that's an API latency is
probably the most important aspect of
that request if you will if you're
serving a website where a lot of users
are coming in attending the website you
probably want to optimize for the number
of concurrent connections and if it's
something where you're only worried
about throughput you want to optimize
for the number of web requests now for
folks who are who've done this in the
past you know there's a equation
essentially that connects all three of
these values so when you're optimizing
for one you're trading off the other you
can't really optimized for all three
because that would just give you a sub-optimal
performance across the board and
then the other thing that you should do
is load test your application because
without testing your application you
don't know how it's going to perform
when that spike of traffic comes for
your startup for example or your large
website and one of the pieces of advice
I give to customers when I talk to them
is start without auto scaling minimum
and maximum of one what this allows you
to do is essentially test how your
application is going to perform in
overload conditions that is very
important because even though you have
auto scaling turned on and you expect
auto scaling to go and add instances if
you have a big spike your
going to be in an overload condition for
some period of time and you want to make
sure you understand how your application
behaves under that condition you also
want to look at the available metrics
and I'll show you guys all the metrics
we have available in Elastic Beanstalk
and make sure you understand how they
correlate with the different ways your
application operates finally you want to
make sure you tune the auto scaling
configuration by default Beanstalk uses
a network in which is a good proxy for
the number of requests your application
is receiving but depending on your
application you may want to choose a
different metric for example CPU and
also set the appropriate breach duration
because this allows you to tune how
quickly auto scaling is going to react
when you have traffic coming or loads of
traffic come in and finally always make
sure not just a test your application
but to understand how your back-end
behaves I've seen plenty of times where
customers have gone in an settable
application on Elastic Beanstalk and
said I'm going to scale from 1
to 100 instances everything works
perfectly but then they have an RDS
database in the back-end or a DynamoDB
table in the back-end that they have not
optimized the throughput on and if you
don't do that what you're going to
essentially end up getting is a lot of
people will come into your application
the application is going to send a lot
of requests to the back-end and the back-end
is not going to be able to handle it
because you've not tuned it or optimized
it so always ensure that you understand
the flow of requests through your entire
system end-to-end and you've tuned the
entire system end-to-end to take traffic
at the highest load that you're
anticipating or maybe even go you know
one and a half times or twice that much
when you're testing let's quickly talk
about deployment options this is again
very important because when you have a
website that's running you've got you
know a hundred thousand people that are
on that website and you have to go make
changes because you want to roll out a
new version you want to make sure you
understand the deployment options we
have available because this essentially
can save your bacon in either having a
downtime in that deployment or not
having a downtime Beanstalk has
two different options we
support we have a rolling deployment
which is an in-place deployment so what
this does is essentially update the
versions in place or on the existing
instances if you will some of the pros
of this are obviously it's fast because
we're not bringing up additional
infrastructure the cons of this approach
is the rollback is slower because you
have to redeploy the previous
application version to roll back if you
had any bugs in the new version the
other con is possibility of state build
up so when you're building applications
an Elastic Beanstalk we're expecting
that you're following the twelve factor
APP methodology your APPs are stateless
they're not saving state on the machines
or on disk if you will they're using a
database or a cache to do that so when
you do do deployments you have the
possibility of building up state on this
if you will if your environments have
been running or the instances have been
running for a very long time and they've
had multiple versions of deployments the
next approach that we support which is
what we recommend for zero downtime
deployments up is a blue-green approach
if you will the pros are it's really
fast to roll back because you already
have the old version running you never
tear it down or until you prove that
your new versions working okay so you
can simply just move the pointer back to
the old version and it just starts using
the old version it also ensures that
you're not building up state on your
environments because you're bringing in
a new set of infrastructure every time
you do a deployment the cons of this
approach are deployments take longer so
as you saw in my demo there when I did
an update it took about 30 seconds or so
to do the deployment if i did a
blue-green approach it would take about
two to three minutes to do the
deployment so it's a trade-off on do you
want guaranteed zero downtime or do you
want to just roll out the version as
quickly as possible one of the other
downsides to blue green in elastic
Beanstalk is we use cname swap so we're
swapping DNS if you will and there's a
lot of clients out there that don't
necessarily respect the DNS TTL
that we set on
our cname record being stalked by
default sets a 60-second TTL however
their clients and specifically mobile
devices are really bad at this they will
cache DNS addresses for up to 24 hours so
you may run into a problem where
customers are unable to access your
application once you've done a cname
swap for some period of time so one of
the pieces of recommendation that we
give to customers when they do blue/green
is to ensure that they understand how
long are their clients or their
customers are essentially going to take
to tail off of one environment and go to
the next and keep the other environment
at a much lesser scale around so that
you don't have customers with a bad
experience once you're out of that
window it could be an hour for some
customers it's days for other customers
depending on what they're doing you can
then terminate that environment because
it's no longer necessary but this is
again a trade-off of you know do you
want guaranteed down time guaranteed
zero downtime sorry that guarantees your
customers are having a good experience
or you want to quickly roll out a
version so let's talk about the
operational side you have a website or
an application in the Elastic Beanstalk
you've deployed at Elastic Beanstalk
everything works great you get a post
in hacker to use all of a
sudden you've got a lot of people come
in on your website you obviously don't
want to be sitting and monitoring that
every single day because today it's
hacker news tomorrow it could be CNN day
after it could be somebody else so that
takes a lot of time away from when you
could be developing or coding in elastic
Beanstalk we make it super simple to set
up alarms to set up log rotation so that
you always have your logs so you can go
back and look at any time frame when you
see errors in your system what may have
happened we make it very easy to set up
metrics and monitoring if you will and
I'll show you guys the dashboard and
finally the last piece of advice I'd
have around operational behavior is use
Route 53 health checks Route 53 health
checks allow you to essentially
paying your environment from
8 different regions across the
world it costs about a dollar and a half
the first 50 health checks are free on
AWS endpoints after that it's a dollar
and a half per month so it's very cheap
but it's a good sense of how your
application is being perceived across
the world if you will and it tells you
if for example you've deployed an
application in San Francisco but it
can't be accessed from Frankfurt or from
Dublin because Route 53 is going to do
the health checks from those regions and
it's actually checking the connectivity
outside of the AWS network so it's
really a great thing to have turn on and
use and finally as I mentioned in the
agenda we're going to talk about tagging
tagging is very important if you're
doing any sort of structured application
deployments on Beanstalk one because it
makes it super simple for you to find
the resources that are created as part
of your application or environment two
it can be used to monitor costs so you
can go in to our Cost Explorer and say
show me all resources are all costs
associated with a certain tag and I'll
show you guys how that works very
quickly here the third piece is
Beanstalk automatically adds two tags to
all your environments we have an
environment name and an environment ID
so even if you're not actually tagging
with cost center owners for example you
still have those two pieces of
information that you can use all right
so let's quickly walk through some of
the pieces that I've shown either so
let's make this a little bigger
alright so here as you can see I should
have a staging environment here if i
refresh that's the one we were creating
earlier it got created my applications
here it's got the cname I chose I can go
click on it and it's everything's
working so going back here I have two
environments at dev and staging
environment or a prod environment I'm
going to look at the production
environment because I've set it up
explicitly to generate some errors and
what I'm going to show you guys as I
walk through here is our new health
monitoring system that essentially
allows you to very easily understand and
tune your applications if you will so as
you can see here this applications
health is in warning state when I click
on this I get a very simple in English
message that's telling me that my health
state of the environment is in warning
because one and a half percent of my
requests coming into the application are
failing with HTTP 500 code this is just
one of the things we monitor as part of
the new health monitoring system that we
have we look at about 40 or so different
metrics so we're tracking in near
real-time your CPU usage on the box what
are the response codes for the requests
that you're getting what are the latency
what are the disk drive states or
root file system state are you running
out of disk space we're tracking memory
usage so are you running out of memory
on any of the instances and we're
essentially taking a snapshot every 10
seconds and then applying a set of
business rules to it and then
determining if your application is in OK
state, warning state, degraded state or
severe state and each one of those
states implies a sense of urgency if you
will so if your application is in severe
state your customers are having a really
bad experience and we've essentially
taken all our experience and operating
web services and put that into the set
of rules that we have there for example
in this case because it's only 1% of my
traffic that
coming back with a 500 I go to a warning
state if this was about twenty percent I
would be in a degraded state any more
than that I would be in severe so it's
really a sense of trying to
give our customers or our developers a
sense of what's going on with their
environment just not looking at the
infrastructure but also looking at your
application and how it's behaving and
then as I mentioned with the monitoring
pieces i will show you guys what we have
on the console so you can go in here and
as you can see i have a 8 hosts that are
running as part of this environment on
average i have about seventy percent cpu
utilization and in the last five minutes
because these are all five minute
averages I've served about 3.1 million
requests out of this environment and
this is the one that I've been
essentially showing you guys so it's
right here very easy to monitor see
what's going on so I can see
historically what my environments been
in since I'm explicitly written the
application here to generate errors it's
in warning state I can see my latency
here I can see the number of requests
CPU network in network out one of the
cool features I want to point out is you
can actually click on this edit button
and you get to pick from all of the
resources that are part of the
environment and each one of these have
additional metrics that are available
for you so remember when I was talking
about application and tuning I said
understand all the metrics that are
available to you so I would highly
recommend if you're running a beanstalk
application or if you're just getting
familiar with the Elastic Beanstalk go
through each one of these options and
look at the metrics that are available
to you understand what they mean and how
they impact your application you know
that's something that you should really
spend the time upfront because it will
help you when there is a situation when
you have to come back and diagnose
issues and then let's quickly look at
the alarms so on any of the metrics
that are available on this page you can
also set up alarms in this case I've set
up alarm that says anytime my latency
goes up above
five milliseconds I want to alarm and
what this will do is essentially send
somebody an email you can integrate this
with Pedro duty or other tools slack for
example all of that can be done because
we're essentially sending a SNS
notification and then you can use that
to connect with any system that supports SNS
and then I talked about tags so in
this case I've tagged my environment to
have besides the Beanstalk pre-populated
tags a cost center, a campaign, and an
owner and if we go quickly to support
here actually it's under my account so
go to billing and cost management you
can actually go to Cost Explorer wide
stewing that and in here I can actually
filter this by tags if you will and then
I can apply a cost center tag and say
marketing so now showing me all the
costs of all the essentially AWS
resources that were tagged with that
cost center tag of marketing so very
easy to track your costs there let's go
back here to Elastic Beanstalk and then
i will show you guys our health
monitoring system very quickly so one of
the pieces i mentioned on the causes is
part of the new health monitoring system
so if you have enabled enhance health
monitoring which you can do by going to
configuration and then helped and then
choosing enhanced on the drop-down you
will get all of these new metrics and
the new features we also have a CLI
version that works similar to h top for
those of you who are familiar with the
Linux world so you can just type in
"eb health --refresh" and this will
provide you with a continuously
refreshing dashboard of what's going on
with your environment so as you can see
this is my dev environment i'm serving
about a thousand requests per second
everything looks just fine here
so let's go ahead and actually switch to
my master branch that will connect me
with my prod environment
and now you can see I get all the
information that I was getting on the
console but i also have a lot of
additional data on a per instance or per
resource basis so here we've got
essentially an environment that's
serving as you can see about 10,000
requests per second which is the data
here on that line if whoops on the first
line there it's telling me that I have
98.5 percent of my requests coming back
as 200 or in the 200 range i have about
1.4 percent that are in the 500 range
and then i have a set of Layton sees
here so i have my p99 which is a latency
in percentile and this is one of the
unique features about the Beanstalk
health system it's the first system in
AWS to supply application metrics or
latency metrics in percentiles and here
we've got you know you can look at this
and say 99 percent of my customers
requests are being served in 11
milliseconds and so it's easy to know
how your applications performing from an
operational standpoint if you will and
that the third tab or the section if you
will has your tuning metrics I'm going
to quickly go ahead and just look at
that one tab by itself and in this tab I
can see I have a few metrics here I have
load averages which essentially tells
you how many threads are backed up on
your CPU so if you have a dual core
system you ideally want this number to
be about two because that tells you at
any given time you have one thread
that's being processed and one thread
that's backed up per core we've got CPU
metrics here so as you can see roughly
across the fleet I have about thirty
percent idle rest of it's being used by
user processes and then I've got some I
oh wait time again this is really
beneficial in letting you pick your
scaling metric because you can go in
here and say hey am I constrained on CPU
or am I constraint on IO and that really
lets you choose the instance type that
you want to run your application on but
also set your scaling metrics and then
finally as i said the set of rules or
business rules that are applied
bring you to the causes if you will
where as a developer you don't even have
to look at all the metrics to understand
what's going on we're actually doing
that work for you and we're going to
explain it to you in very simple English
in this case it's saying one-point-five
percent of my requests are failing this
also will say things like
"you have morethan ninety percent of your root
filesystem that's full" or "you're using more
than x percentage of your memory in your application"
if you will so you know
a lot of different things that can go
wrong if they do go wrong we will tell
you exactly in very simple words what's
going on and then you can dive deep
looking at the metrics and the
monitoring capability that Beanstalk
does provide to you so let me go back to
the slides and let me bring on Colin so
that he can talk about our Royal
Caribbean cruise limited partners and
how they've done their implementation
great thank you have a sec perfect thank
you good morning everyone how many of
you went to the party last night oh god
okay hopefully you're awake and
conscious this will be quick so my name
is Colin angel I'm a technical director
at isobar we're a full-service digital
agency and we were engaged to build and
deploy Royal Caribbean comms a new
website major redesign of their
e-commerce platform a little look roel
Caribbean there are a large cruise ship
company and they have destinations all
around the world there their website is
equally massive in scope we launched the
Royal Caribbean calm website in March of
this year on Beanstalk to great success
and that's what I want to tell you about
it's a high volume website and what's
more interesting about that is that
during their peak season they actually
see such a huge surge in traffic that it
nearly doubles their average baseline so
that could pose some interesting scaling
challenges if you're not prepared for
that so first I want to talk about
historical challenges Roth caribbeancom
used to live in
Royals data center so it was on premise
they managed all of the infrastructure
scaling etc in addition their dev and
test environments also lived in those in
that data center and there was a high
demand for those for those environments
for for various projects now there's
there's always difficulties dealing with
physical hardware there's hardware
procurement there's hardware failure
there's upgrading there's repurposing
hardware from one project to another
this all takes time resources money
physical goods in addition in production
the static nature of a physical
infrastructure meant that royal had to
over provision their infrastructure for
prod just to meet the peak demand of
that high season and the remainder of
the year they had more capacity than
they were using so obviously there's
some operational inefficiencies there
and some extra costs so royal one of
Royals other businesses actually
deployed on on Amazon using it as
infrastructure as a service so mostly
ec2 servers and they managed all the
other plumbing themselves within the
cloud now it's important to note that
when you deploy a website there's more
to it than just a bunch of servers
there's a lot of other plumbing and that
requires expertise and requires people
and requires time and that costs money
so what I'd like to talk about is why we
chose Beanstalk so when we were hired to
build the Royal Caribbean calm website
and handle the cloud deployment we made
a case for Elastic Beanstalk our
argument was that using a platform as a
service would provide operational
efficiencies but not only that it would
improve time to market by allowing them
to build quicker and build more often so
Beanstalk lowers your IT burden right it
does a lot of the heavy lifting for you
so that's going to save you time and
money it's also going to make things
more reliable because things are
automated they're also battle tested by
other customers it's an established tool
it's a very stable environment and it's
very easy to use but it goes beyond just
the benefits of IT it's about it's about
empowerment right so empowering the
marketing team providing better visible
into their environments in fact giving
them control over their dev and test
environments so that they can they can
build up as many environments as they
need to meet the demands of the various
projects that they've got on the go so
it's trivial to fire up environments on
ondemand using Beanstalk as Abhishek
showed I mean it literally takes minutes
the system that we used was a
combination of cloud formation and ap is
and it literally takes editing a couple
templates running a command and you've
built up a whole stack and as a result
we were able to build out stacks for
various projects different releases
different test tracks etc in matters of
minutes and try and do that in a
traditional data center so what does it
look like this is somewhat simplified
for the sake of clarity but it's a it's
a hybrid architecture so we have a web
application living on Beanstalk in the
cloud and it calls out to enterprise
services and those services reside in
the Royal data center right so actually
making real time service calls to the
data center in a production application
with high volume how do we do that we
use Direct Connect which is Amazon's
high speed dedicated connections so we
have high speed networking and low
latency the architecture is is pretty
standard it's a standard VPC we have
public subnets for the load balancers we
have private subnets for the ec2 servers
where we have tomcat and apache living
we have an extra layer of security in
there that is not normal not not
standard part of the Beanstalk but we've
introduced that for various reasons and
then we also have some other third-party
vendors in there to provide some
features that we needed in addition to
Beanstalk so how did we build it it's a
combination of cloud formation api's
Jenkins and Beanstalk so cloud formation
these cloud formation to define the
template now this is different from what
Abhishek showed you earlier when we
built this the the features that
Abhishek showed you were not there yet
they were not available yet so we chose
a different path
we're still using api's but we're
actually using the AWS CLI as opposed to
the head ova AWS eb CLI so there's a
difference there but effectively it
comes to the same thing and so the cloud
formation templates define what the
environment looks like you know what
kind of instant size you need jvm params
things like that we use the api's to
execute the creation and the updates to
these environments so they execute the
cloud formation templates for us we use
Jenkins for continuous build so we build
our code but we also use it to build and
deploy all the way to Beanstalk so we
have hands off build and deploy so it's
an automated workflow we use get for
code but we also use it for
configuration right it's important to to
think of infrastructure as code all
right so our scripts and our
configuration or all maintained and get
so you know our primary goal here was
automate everything really automate as
much as we possibly could I highly
recommend this approach it allows you to
define a standardized configuration
across the board you can have tweaks for
various environments but as a whole
you're going to enforce standards that
have been tried and true and tested
which means better reliability lower
room for human error and in addition
when you've got automation in place
you've got some nice benefits like easy
roll backs all right so with the
Beanstalk framework it's trivial to roll
back to a previous version and in fact
using cloud formation it's easy to roll
back your infrastructure to a prior set
of configuration auditing is also made
easier by and by automation so all in
all our goal is to make it quick and
simple and and that's the that's the end
result so hey I want to point out that
it's possible with these tools or the
tools that Abhishek showed you to build
a continuous delivery pipeline right and
it's actually very easy to do this so if
you've been interested in going down
this route I highly recommend looking
into it because it's quite simple to do
a combination of in our case get Jenkins
Beanstalk and cloud formation allowed us
to automate the entire process from
build test security scans provisioning
hardware deploying the application
rolling updates and then all the
production sort of operational concerns
around scaling
and fault tolerance so what were the
results at the end of the day we had
dramatically reduced deployment time now
I I say in here it took it takes 30
minutes for our deployments and Abhishek
was talking about seconds or minutes and
in reality it takes us eight minutes to
deploy to all of our instances in
production iPad that 30 minutes just in
case you know someone does something
wrong or you know whatever we have a we
have an unpredicted issue but it's it's
significantly reduced our outages on
Beanstalk since since our go live in
March have been zero and our operations
for the web app in the cloud have have
reduced significantly as well it's a
highly stable environment it also scales
extremely well and remember it autos
scales for you right you could know you
could set this up yourself you could set
up your own auto scaling groups and
configure those and manage those but
what Beanstalk does for you is it
encapsulates all of that business logic
all of all those different component
parts and handles it for you you have to
tune it but once it's set up it's
basically set it and forget it and
overall the system now is so simple that
it takes less than one part time
resource to manage all of the
environments everywhere from test to
production so based on our success with
Beanstalk we we just recently launched
actually last week in additional markets
on Beanstalk and we're going to be
launching mobile booking as well on
Beanstalk as well so just to summarize
I'd like to say that you might think
that Beanstalk is is simplistic it's not
it's simple but it's not simplistic it's
actually quite powerful and it removes a
lot of complexity and moving parts that
you would otherwise have to manage
yourself so our experience at Royal
Caribbean has been has been great with
Beanstalk and highly encourage you to
take a look at it thank you